---
title: "Super Abstracted Programming Language"
date: 2025-05-31
---

In the past, due to limited hardware performance and compiler
capabilities, programmers had to develop software with hardware
limitations in mind. As hardware has advanced and compilers have added
numerous functionalities, most programmers no longer need to consider
hardware. Thanks to this, software development productivity has
increased dramatically.

Abstraction, in other words, means not needing to specify the concrete
implementation details. Now, programmers are often not required to
explicitly define what sorting algorithm to use, how memory should be
managed, or how network communication should be handled, among other
details.

Language models will enable programmers to program declaratively at a
very high level of abstraction. Compilers of existing programming
languages translated declarative elements into procedural machine code
according to predetermined rules. However, language models can
understand user intent and convert it into procedural algorithms even in
situations where there are no predetermined rules.

The key point is that the correctness of the converted algorithm must be
guaranteed. In the case of compilers, correctness is guaranteed
through numerous tests or verification techniques. However, due to the
black-box nature of language models, it is necessary to dynamically
check whether the converted algorithm aligns with the user's intent at
runtime. We can apply verification techniques in the field of programming
languages to verify the correctness.