---
title: "Formalize Everything"
date: 2025-04-18
---

Language models are being used to assist human work across various
fields, including coding and documentation, based on their ability to
address both natural and formal language. However, we should now be able
to use language models to define new problems and solve them.
Specification writing using formal language is a prime example of such
problems.

Writing specifications in formal language is crucial for verification
and accuracy, but it requires so much time and effort that it is rarely
done except for very important projects. However, by utilizing language
models, we can write specifications in natural language and convert them
to formal language, significantly reducing the time and effort required
for specification writing.

One challenging aspect is that there is no clear way to verify whether
the natural language has been properly translated into formal language.
This is a new problem that no one has considered before, as translating
natural language into formal language was previously impossible.

Nevertheless, its impact is undoubtedly clear. It will become possible
to write and verify all rules, including requirements, laws, and
security regulations, in formal language. The technology of translating
natural language into formal language will serve as a bridge for
programming language theory to solve real-world problems beyond the
domain of programming languages. We hope our research will lay the foundation
for this future.
